Now let's add some paragraphs of text to the quotation Microsoft Word document.
First, you add a paragraph to display the title and set the text to it.
Next, add another paragraph to it, add company details, add
the local image, and the quotation date, and customer
details in subsequent paragraphs.
But before jumping into the demo,
let's look at the API classes and methods that you
will be using during this demo.
The XWPFDocument class's createParagraph method will help you
create a new paragraph in the document.
Then using the XWPFParagraph class,
you can create a new region of text by calling the createRun method.
Then,
in the XWPFRun class, there are a set of methods that you'll use
frequently to do things like adding text to the run,
adding pictures, line breaks, and tab spaces.
Let's take a quick look at what's involved with adding
paragraphs and content to the document.
You'll already have a document created.
Then add a new paragraph to the document by calling the
createParagraph method on the document.
Next, to start adding content to the paragraph,
you need to add something called as a new region to the
paragraph. For that, call createRun method on the paragraph.
It will create a new XWPFRun object.
The run marks a new region or section in the paragraph where you can add text
and other content like pictures to. And most importantly,
add styling to them.
You can create separate runs in a paragraph and style them in
different ways like applying different colors, font types,
sizes, setting to bold and italic, and etc.
Now you can set text to the region you created. Add a picture
by calling the addPicture method on the run.
If you need to add tabs,
call the addTab method to place a tab at the current location in the
run. To add line breaks, call the addBreak method to place an explicit
line break at the current location in the run.
This method call will cause overriding of the normal line
breaking that would happen at the end of a line and let you
break at the desired point.
Now to start adding content in your Word document, back in the code,
go to your generateQuotation method and add this line of code
to create a new paragraph in the document.
This is the title paragraph,
and it's going to be the very first paragraph in the quotation document.
Then, in the next line, create a run on the title paragraph.
It will return XWPFRun object.
A run is like a new region or section in the paragraph where you can
add text and other content like pictures to. Next,
set this text, "Product Quote" to the run.
Now, at this point, you can save and run the application.
When you open the created Word document, you can see that the text Product Quote is added to the document.